# QC-configurational-analysis

> Author: Kieran McDowall  
> Date: 25/02/2025

This repository contains code aimed at using classical and quantum computing techniques (brute force, simulated annealing, random sampling, VQE and quantum annealing) to find the relative energy of defective graphene structures via solving the associated QUBOs.

## Setup

### `uv` method (recommended)

1. Clone the repository using `git clone` and navigate to it
2. Run `uv sync` (takes ~30s)

### `pip` method

1. Clone the repository using `git clone` and navigate to it
2. Create and activate a virtual environment
4. Run `pip install .` (takes several minutes)

> Note this has been tested on Python 3.12, ymmv on other versions.

## Outline

- For simulated VQE
    - run `VQE_sim.py` to perform VQE
    - run `postpro_VQE_sim.py` to view the results
- For real VQE
    1. Set running options in `VQE_QPU.py`
    2. run `python serverless_upload_VQE.py` to upload and run it
    3. save results with `serverless_save_run_results.py`
    4. process and view results with `postpro_VQE_QPU_serverless.py`
- For annealing
    - use `QA.ipynb`
- For brute-force methods
    - use `clasical_BF_QUBO.ipynb`
- To get the plots from the paper
    - use `final_distribution_plots.py`
    - and also `plotScaling_QA.ipynb`
    - the data in the main table is from `final_CSVs`

## Contents

### Folders

- `annealing_plots` : plots of distributions generated by `QA.py`.
- `distr_data` : distribution data for plotting.
- `final_CSVs` : storing final CSVs with metrics for each method.
- `RawResults` : unprocessed results.
- `source_files` : the file that is being run with qiskit serverless.
- `VQE_plots` : distribution and convergence plots generated by postpro_VQE_sim.py and postpro_VQE_QPU_serverless.py.

### Scripts
- `VQE_sim.py` : running VQE on a QPU.
- `final_distribution_plots.py` : plotting the distributions shown in the paper from the data in distr_data.
- `paper_function.py` : generating problem cell made by Bruno Camino.
- `postpro_VQE_QPU_serverless.py` : processing the results of VQE on the QPU in RawResults.
- `postpro_VQE_sim.py` : processing the results of VQE on the simulator in RawResults.
- `QA.ipynb` : solving the QUBO with quantum annealing, simulated annealing and random sampling.
- `quantum_computing_functions.py` : generating problem cell made by Bruno Camino.
- `quantum_computing_postprocessing.py` : generating problem cell made by Bruno Camino.
- `serverless_save_run_results.py` : saving the results from the serverless run to RawResults.
- `serverless_upload_VQE.py` : uploading VQE_QPU.py to run on a QPU with serverless.
- `VQE_sim.py` : running VQE on a simulator.

### Notebooks
- `clasical_BF_QUBO.ipynb` : solving the QUBO with classical brute force (unconstrained and constrained).
- `plotScaling_QA.ipynb` : plotting the scaling behaviour of QA and SA with data from RawResults. These plots appear in the paper.
